Causative Form
Form
We form the causative with the verb to have in the appropriate tense followed by an object and the past participle of the main verb.
In the causative, the subject of the sentence is not the doer of the action, but the person who arranged or asked for the action to be done by someone else.
Causative vs Active Voice
Present Simple
Active: She designs clothes.
Causative: She has clothes designed.
Present Continuous
Active: She is designing clothes.
Causative: She is having clothes designed.
Past Simple
Active: She designed clothes.
Causative: She had clothes designed.
Past Continuous
Active: She was designing clothes.
Causative: She was having clothes designed.
Future Simple
Active: She will design clothes.
Causative: She will have clothes designed.
Future Continuous
Active: She will be designing clothes.
Causative: She will be having clothes designed.
Present Perfect
Active: She has designed clothes.
Causative: She has had clothes designed.
Present Perfect Continuous
Active: She has been designing clothes.
Causative: She has been having clothes designed.
Past Perfect
Active: She had designed clothes.
Causative: She had had clothes designed.
Past Perfect Continuous
Active: She had been designing clothes.
Causative: She had been having clothes designed.
Infinitive
Active: She wants to design clothes.
Causative: She wants to have clothes designed.
-ing form
Active: She likes designing clothes.
Causative: She likes having clothes designed.
Usage
We use the causative to say that someone else does something for us.
They hired a professional to decorate their country house. → They had their country house decorated. (They didn't do it themselves - a professional did it.)
Important Notes
The verb to have used in the causative forms its negative sentences and questions with the auxiliary verb do/does/don't/doesn't (Present Simple) or did/didn't (Past Simple).
Adam doesn't have his jumpers dry cleaned.
Did you have your eyes checked?
Get is often used in the causative instead of have.
Did Mary have/get her hair dyed?
The causative can be used instead of the passive to express accidents and misfortunes.
George had his car stolen from the parking lot. (= His car was stolen from the parking lot.)