Module 7
Conditionals: Type 1
Type 1 conditionals are used to express a real or very probable situation in the present or future.
Structure:
If-clause: if + present simple
Main clause: future simple
Example:
If she does well at the interview, she will get the job.
Notes:
When the hypothesis comes before the main clause, we separate the two parts with a comma.
When the main clause comes before the if-clause, we do not use a comma.
With type 1 conditionals we can use unless + affirmative verb (= if + negative verb).
She will not speak to him unless he apologises. (If he doesn't apologise, she will not speak to him.)

Conditionals: Types 2 & 3
Type 2 (unreal present):
Used to express imaginary situations which are contrary to facts in the present, and therefore unlikely to happen in the present or future.
We can use either were or was for 1st and 3rd person singular in the if-clause.
The structure if I were you, ... is used to give advice.
Structure:
If-clause: if + past simple/past continuous
Main clause: would/could/might + bare infinitive

Examples:
If I had a good voice, I would become a singer.
If Paul was not working today, we could go to the beach.
If I were you, I would stay in tonight.
Type 3 (unreal past):
Used to express imaginary situations which are contrary to facts in the past.
Also used to express regrets or criticism.
Structure:
If-clause: if + past perfect/past perfect continuous
Main clause: would/could/might + bare perfect infinitive

Examples:
If I had studied harder, I would have passed the exams.
If he hadn't been studying that hard, he wouldn't have passed his exams.
Other Conditional Expressions
Conditionals are usually introduced by if. Other expressions include:
unless (= if not)
providing, provided (that)
as long as
on condition (that)
but for + -ing form/noun
otherwise, or else
what if
supposing
even if
only if

Examples:
Unless she starts studying harder, she's going to fail her exams.
Get up now or else you'll miss your appointment.
Put your sweater on, otherwise you'll get cold.
We'll leave on Monday, supposing the weather's fine.
Note: When only if begins a sentence, the subject and the verb of the main clause are inverted.
Only if you are dressed formally, will you be allowed in.

Important Notes
In conditionals type 2 in formal English, we normally use were instead of was after "if" for all persons.
If he were/was here, things would have been different.
We do not normally use will, would or should in if-clauses.
If you stay up late, you can get into trouble. (NOT: if you will stay)
However, will, would or should can be used in if-clauses to make a request or express annoyance, doubt, uncertainty or insistence.
If she should need help, ask her to call me. (doubt/uncertainty)
If you will stop arguing, we will find a solution. (request)
Omission of 'if'
If can be omitted in if-clauses. In this case should (cond. type 1), were (cond. type 2) and had (cond. type 3) come before the subject.

Examples:
If he should pass the exam, he will apply to university. → Should he pass the exam, he will apply to university.
If there were an election tomorrow, who would you vote for? → Were there an election tomorrow, who would you vote for?
If I had known, I would have told you. → Had I known, I would have told you.

Wishes
We can use I wish/if only to express a wish.
I wish/if only + past simple/past continuous
To say that we would like something to be different about a present situation
I wish I was not working right now. (but I am)
If only I were going to the concert tonight. (but I'm not)
I wish/if only + past perfect
To express regret about something which happened or didn't happen in the past
I wish I had studied harder. (but I didn't)
If only I hadn't been so foolish. (but I was)
I wish/if only + subject + would + bare infinitive
To express a polite imperative or a desire for a situation or person's behaviour to change
I wish you wouldn't be so rude to your sister.
If only you would stop arguing.
Note:
If only is used in exactly the same way as I wish but it is more emphatic or more dramatic.
We can use were instead of was after "wish" and "if only".
I wish I were young again.