Module 8
Inversion
We can invert the subject and the auxiliary verb in the sentence to give emphasis. If there is no auxiliary verb, we use do/does (Present Simple) or did (Past Simple) in the interrogative.

Inversion occurs:
After certain expressions when placed at the beginning of a sentence:

Barely, Hardly (ever) … when, in no way, in/Under no circumstances, Little, Never (before), Nor/Neither, No sooner … than, Not even once, Not only … but also, Not since, Not till/until, Nowhere, Only in this way, On no account, On no occasion, Only then, Rarely, Scarcely (ever) … when, Seldom, etc.

Examples:
Not even once has he offered to help us.
Rarely do we go out during the week.

Note: only after, only by, only if, only when, not since, not till/until used at the beginning cause inversion of the subject and the auxiliary verb in the main clause.
Not until he told me his full name, did I remember where we had met.
In conditionals when should, were, had (Past Perfect) are placed at the beginning of the sentence (note that "if" is omitted):

Should you decide to come by, give us a call first. (If you should decide … - Type 1)
Were he more honest with himself, he would admit his mistake. (If he were … - Type 2)
Had I known about the reputation of the restaurant, I wouldn't have gone there. (If I had known … Type 3)
After so, such, to such a degree (in result clauses) placed at the beginning of a sentence:
So angry was he, that he couldn't utter a word.

After as, neither/nor, so to express agreement:
"I had chicken for dinner." "So did I." (So is used to agree with an affirmative sentence.)
"Peter isn't doing well at maths." "Neither/Nor is Joan." (Neither/Nor are used to agree with a negative statement.)
George's parents spent a lot of money on his birthday present, as did his grandparents.

Inversion with main verb (no auxiliary):
After adverbs of place:

There goes the last bus! BUT There it goes!
Here are your glasses! BUT Here they are!
In Direct Speech when the reporting verb comes after the quote and the subject of the noun:
"That was a good film," said Bill. ("Bill said" is also possible). BUT "That was a good film," he said.


