Infinitive
The to-infinitive is used:
to express purpose.
She went to the supermarket to buy some cheese.
after certain verbs that refer to the future (agree, appear, decide, expect, hope, plan, promise, refuse, want, etc).
I expect him to be here. I want you to come.
after would like, would prefer, would love, etc to express a specific preference.
I would love to come to your party.
after adjectives which describe feelings/emotions (happy, glad, sad, etc), express willingness/ unwillingness (eager, reluctant, willing, etc) or refer to a person’s character (clever, kind, etc) and the adjectives lucky and fortunate.
I was sad to hear you were not feeling well.
Note: With adjectives that refer to character, we can also use an impersonal construction it + be + adjective/noun.
It was kind of you to lend me your laptop. It was moving to see him again after so many years.
after too/enough.
She’s old enough to watch the film.
after be + first/second/next/last, etc.
She was the first person to call me on my birthday.
after verbs and expressions such as ask, decide, explain, find out, learn, want, want to know, etc when they are followed by a question word.
She asked me when to get the tickets.
in the expressions to tell you the truth, to be honest, to sum up, to begin with, etc.
To sum up, the government needs to take measures to deal with unemployment more effectively.
Note: If two to-infinitives are linked by and/or, the to of the second infinitive is omitted.
I would love to go to Paris and see the museums.
after certain nouns: honour, goal, way, etc.
It’s an honour to take part in this festival. You can find a better way to spend your time.
with so + adjective + as.
Would you be so kind as to help me with the door?
with ‘only’ expressing an unsatisfactory result.
She drove all the way to the mall only to find it was closed.
in the expressions for + noun/pronoun + to -inf.
It was very unusual for John to speak so rudely.
Note: Dare expressing ‘having the courage to do something’ is used with an infinitive with or without to. I don’t dare (to) tell him the truth. Dare expressing a threat, a warning or anger, is used with an infinitive without to. Don’t you dare talk to me like that. Dare expressing a challenge is used with a to-infinitive.
I dare you to dive into the sea from the cliff.
The infinitive without to (also called bare infinitive) is used:
after modal verbs.
Sally can speak Portuguese fluently.
after the verbs let, make, see, hear and feel.
They let him travel on his own.
BUT
We use the to-infinitive after be made, be heard, be seen, etc (passive form).
She was seen to steal goods from the greengrocer’s.
Note: When see, hear and watch are followed by an -ing form, there is no change in the passive.
I heard her crying in her room. She was heard crying in her room.
after had better and would rather.
You had better put a jacket on.
Note: Help can be followed by either the to-infinitive or the infinitive without to.
She helped me (to) carry the desk.
