Modal Verbs in Reported Speech
Note how modal verbs change in reported speech when the reported sentence is out of date:

Direct Speech → Reported Speech
"I will always remember you." → He said (that) he would always remember me.
"I can't see you." → He said (that) he couldn't see me. (present)
"We can visit you soon." → He said (that) they would be able to visit me soon. (future)
"It may rain." → He said (that) it might rain.
"What time shall we call her?" → He asked what time we would call her. (information)
"Shall I buy this car?" → He asked (me) if he should buy that car. (advice)
"Shall I give you a hand?" → He offered to give me a hand. (offer)
"You must send him a reply." → He said (that) I had to send him a reply. (obligation)
"She must be upset." → He said (that) she must be upset. (deduction)
"You needn't worry." → He said (that) I didn't have to/didn't need to worry. (present)
"You needn't come that early tomorrow." → He said (that) I wouldn't have to go/come that early the next day. (future)
"They should give me a receipt." → He said (that) they should give him a receipt.

Special Introductory Verbs
Introductory verb + to-infinitive
agree
"Yes, I'll call you." → He agreed to call me.
demand
"Show me everything!" → He demanded to be shown everything.
offer
"Would you like me to help you?" → He offered to help me.
promise
"I'll be nicer to Jenny." → He promised to be nicer to Jenny.
refuse
"No, I won't join you." → He refused to join me.
threaten
"Turn down the music or I'll call the police." → He threatened to call the police if I didn't turn down the music.
claim
"I saw her crying." → He claimed to have seen her crying.
Introductory verb + somebody + to-infinitive
advise
"You should drink some water." → He advised me to drink some water.
allow
"You can wear my jacket." → He allowed me to wear his jacket.
ask
"Please, close the door." → He asked me to close the door.
beg
"Please, please listen to me." → He begged me to listen to him.
command
"March!" → He commanded the soldiers to march.
encourage
"Go ahead, open the door." → He encouraged me to open the door.
forbid
"You mustn't park here." → He forbade me to park there.
instruct
"Press the button and wait for the message to appear." → He instructed me to press the button and wait for the message to appear.
invite
"Would you like to come to my party?" → He invited me to go to his party.
order
"Stop shouting immediately." → He ordered me to stop shouting immediately.
permit
"You may go now." → He permitted me to go.
remind
"Don't forget to take the keys with you." → He reminded me to take the keys with me.
urge
"Eat your food." → He urged me to eat my food.
warn
"Don't go out in this rain." → He warned me not to go out in that rain.
want
"I'd like you to be quiet." → He wanted me to be quiet.
Introductory verb + -ing form
accuse somebody of
"You ate my sandwich." → He accused me of eating his sandwich.
apologise for
"I'm sorry I disappointed you." → He apologised for disappointing me.
admit (to)
"Yes, I broke the vase." → He admitted (to) breaking/having broken the vase.
boast about/of
"I am taller than you." → He boasted about being taller than me.
complain about/of
"I have a headache." → He complained of having a headache.
deny
"No, I didn't use your card." → He denied using/having used my card.

insist on
"You must take care of yourself." → He insisted on me/my taking care of myself.

suggest
"Let's cook dinner." → He suggested cooking dinner.
Introductory verb + that-clause
agree
"Yes, that is a gorgeous dress." → He agreed that it was a gorgeous dress.
boast
"I'm a great painter." → He boasted that he was a great painter.
claim
"I know everything." → He claimed that he knew everything.
complain
"You always lie to me." → He complained that I always lied to him.

deny
"I've never met her." → He denied that he had ever met her.
exclaim
"It's splendid!" → He exclaimed that it was splendid.
explain
"It's not difficult at all." → He explained that it was not difficult at all.
inform somebody
"You will be given a test." → He informed me that I would be given a test.
promise
"I won't do this again." → He promised that he wouldn't do that again.
suggest
"You can cope with this problem." → The doctor suggested that I could cope with that problem.

Introductory verb + how/where/why/what/whether + clause
explain to somebody how + to-infinitive (when the subject of the infinitive is the same as the subject of the verb)
"This is how you write it." → He explained to me how to write it.
wonder (when the subject of the introductory verb is not the same as the subject in the reported question)
"How can I win the award?" → He wondered how he could win the award.
"Where is Paul?" → He wondered where Paul was.
"Why is she so upset?" → He wondered why she was so upset.
"Shall I go home?" → He wondered whether he should go home.
"Where am I heading to?" → He wondered where he was heading to.
wonder + whether + clause
"What should I tell them?" → He wondered what he should tell them.
"How can I stop this?" → He wondered how to stop that.