So — Neither / Nor
So + auxiliary verb + personal pronoun/noun

Positive addition to a positive sentence.

Helen drives a sports car. So does Jack. (Jack drives a sports car too.)

Sarah went to Spain last year. So did we. (We went to Spain too.)

Neither/Nor + auxiliary verb + personal pronoun/noun

Negative addition to a negative sentence.

Peter didn't come to the party. Neither/Nor did James. (NOT: So didn't James.)

Quantifiers: Some – Any – No – Every & their compounds
Some, any and no are used with uncountable nouns and plural countable nouns.

We need some eggs and some butter.

Compounds of Some, Any, No, Every
POSITIVE	INTERROGATIVE	NEGATIVE
People	somebody/someone, everybody/everyone	anybody/anyone	nobody/no one, not anybody
Things	something, everything	anything	nothing, not anything
Places	somewhere, everywhere	anywhere	nowhere, not anywhere
Examples:

There's somebody at the door.

Is anyone here?

There is no one here. / There isn't anyone here.

I've looked everywhere but I can't find him.

Special Notes:

Would you like something to eat? (offer)

What's wrong? Have you lost something? (expecting a positive answer)

If anyone calls, tell them to leave a message.

Anyone who wants to come must give me their names now.

You can come any time. (It doesn't matter who or what time.)

Usage Rules
Some and its compounds:

Used in affirmative sentences: My jacket must be near here somewhere.

Used in interrogative sentences for offers or requests:

Would you like some cake?

Can I have some milk with my tea, please?

Any and its compounds:

Used in interrogative sentences: Has anyone called?

Not any is used in negative sentences: There isn't any fruit in the basket.

Used with negative words such as without, never, rarely: I have never met anyone like him.

Hardly any is used in affirmative sentences, with uncountable nouns and plural countable nouns:

There is hardly any salt in the soup.

There were hardly any children at the park.

When used in affirmative sentences, their meaning is "it doesn't matter what/who/where":

You can say anything you want to the journalist. (it doesn't matter what)

Anyone can take part in the competition. (it doesn't matter who)

No and its compounds:

Used instead of not any in negative sentences. The verb is then used in the affirmative:

They haven't got any money. / They've got no money.

They didn't buy anything. / They bought nothing.

There wasn't anybody in the room. / There was nobody in the room.

Every:

Used with singular countable nouns: Every student in the class laughed with the teacher's joke.

Note: We use a singular verb with compounds of some, any, no and every.

There is someone in the room.

Everything seems to be going fine.

Every – Each
Every:

Used with singular countable nouns.

Refers to a group of people or things and means "all, everyone, everything".

Every student has a library card. (= all students)

Each:

Used with singular countable nouns.

Refers to the members of the group separately.

Each visitor was given a day pass. (each visitor separately)

Comparison:

Every one and each (one) can be followed by of.

We normally use each when we talk about two people or things.

We use every when we talk about three or more people or things.

She owns two flats and she decorated each (one) of them beautifully.

Paul has written many novels. Every one of them has been a best seller.

A few/few – A little/little
A few and few
Used with plural countable nouns.
A little and little:
Used with uncountable nouns.
A few means 'not many, but enough':
We have a few apples. We can make an apple pie.
Few means 'hardly any, almost none' and can be used with very for emphasis:
There were (very) few visitors in the museum.
A little means 'not much, but enough':
It's a little cold – would you like me to close the window?
Little means 'hardly any, almost none' and can be used with very for emphasis:
We have (very) little time left. We must hurry up.

A lot of/Lots of — Much — Many
A lot of/Lots of:
Used with both plural countable and uncountable nouns.
Normally used in affirmative sentences.
There are a lot/lots of opportunities for young graduates.
The of is omitted when a lot/lots are not followed by a noun: There's lots/a lot going on in town today.

Much and many:
Usually used in negative or interrogative sentences.
Much is used with uncountable nouns.
Many is used with plural countable nouns.
There aren't many books on the shelf.
Did you spend much money in the sales?

Either — Neither — Both
Either (= any of the two):
Refers to two people or things.
Used before singular countable nouns.
Either of takes a verb either in the singular or the plural.
Neither (= not one and not the other):
Refers to two people or things.
Used before singular countable nouns.
Neither actor won an award.
Neither of takes a verb either in the singular or the plural: Neither of two brothers is/are at school today.

Both:
Refers to two people or things.
Has a positive meaning and takes a verb in the plural.
Is the opposite of neither/not either.
Nick and Alex are musicians. Both Nick and Alex are musicians. They are both musicians. Both of them are musicians. Both men are musicians.
Whole — All — None
Whole (= complete):
Used with countable nouns.
We always use a, the, this, my, etc + whole + countable noun.
She spent the whole morning studying. (= all morning).

All:
Refers to more than two people or things.
Has a positive meaning and takes a verb in the plural.
Is the opposite of none.
All of us went to the cinema together. We all went to the cinema together. All four of us went to the cinema together.
All + that-clause (= the only thing) takes a singular verb: All that she does is to criticise other people.

None:
Refers to more than two people or things.
Has a negative meaning and isn't followed by a noun.
"Have you read any of the papers?" "No, none."
None of is used before nouns or object pronouns followed by a verb either in the singular or plural.
Is the opposite of all.
None of my friends called me on my birthday.

Other Quantifiers
A couple of (= a few, one or two):
Followed by a countable noun in the plural.
I'll be leaving in a couple of minutes.
Several (= a number of):
Followed by a countable noun in the plural.
We've been to Madrid several times.
A great deal of (= a lot):

Followed by an uncountable noun.
He's a brilliant scientist who deserves a great deal of respect.
Plenty of (= much/many):

Followed by a countable or uncountable noun.
There's plenty of room in the car for all five of us.
Make sure you eat plenty of vegetables.

Countable — Uncountable Nouns
Countable nouns: those that can be counted (1 pen, 2 pens, etc)
Uncountable nouns: those that can't be counted (sugar, meat, etc)

Rules for uncountable nouns:
Take a singular verb.
Are not used with a/an.
Some, any, much, no etc can be used with them.
I'd like some information on ticket prices, please.

Exceptions (uncountable nouns that can be used with a/an):
a help, a knowledge (of sth), a pity, a relief, a shame, a wonder.
Any information would be a great help.
A good knowledge of the Russian language is necessary for the job.
It was such a relief to hear that everyone was safe!
What a pity you couldn't come!
It's a shame to see all this talent go to waste.

Categories of Uncountable Nouns
Mass nouns (fluids, solids, gases, particles): beer, blood, bread, butter, air, oxygen, corn, flour, etc

Subjects of study: accountancy, chemistry, economics, history, literature, maths, physics, etc

Languages: Chinese, French, Italian, Japanese, Portuguese, Spanish, etc
Sports: baseball, billiards, cricket, cycling, darts, football, golf, rugby, etc
Diseases: chickenpox, flu, measles, mumps, pneumonia, tuberculosis, etc
Natural phenomena: darkness, fog, gravity, hail, snow, sunlight, shade, etc
Collective nouns: family, flock, public, team, committee, clergy, company, enemy, group, government, etc
Compound nouns: countryside, homework, housework, seaside, etc
Abstract nouns: anger, beauty, fear, knowledge, love, trouble, truth, wealth, work, etc
Most Common Uncountable Nouns
accommodation, advice, baggage, behaviour, crockery, cutlery, furniture, information, jewellery, luggage, machinery, money, news, progress, rubbish, stationery, traffic, travel, weather, etc
Note: With expressions of duration, distance or money meaning "a whole amount" we use a singular verb.
Three hundred pounds a night is too much to pay for this room.
Making Uncountable Nouns Countable
Many uncountable nouns can be made countable using a measurement and the word of:
a piece of advice/cake/furniture/information/paper
a glass of beer/water/wine
a jar of jam
a rasher of bacon
a pint of beer
a box/sheet of paper
a packet of tea
a slice/loaf of bread
a kilo/pound of meat
a tube of toothpaste
a bar of chocolate/soap
a bit/piece of chalk
an ice cube
a lump of sugar
a bag of flour
a pair of trousers
a game of soccer
a(n) item/piece of news
a drop/can of oil
a can of Coke
a carton of milk
a block of wood
a flash/bolt of lightning
a clap/peal of thunder, etc