Stative Verbs
Stative verbs are verbs which describe a state rather than an action, and do not usually have a continuous form. These verbs are:
verbs of the senses (appear, feel, hear, look, see, smell, sound, taste, etc).
It sounds fantastic.
verbs of perception (believe, forget, know, realise, remember, understand, etc).
I realise how difficult it is.
verbs which express feelings and emotions (desire, detest, enjoy, hate, like, love, prefer, want, etc).
Sarah enjoys cooking.
and some other verbs (be, belong, contain, cost, fit, have, include, keep, matter, need, owe, own, weigh, wish, etc).
The dress costs £500.
Some of these verbs can be used in continuous tenses, but with a difference in meaning.
PRESENT SIMPLE -  PRESENT CONTINUOUS
I think she’s a lovely girl. (= believe) - I am thinking about moving to Canada. (= am considering)
He has a hamster. (= owns, possesses) - She is having a difficult time at work. (= experiencing) He is having lunch now. (= eating) He is having a bath. (= taking)
You can see the volcano from the hilltop. (= it is visible) - I’m seeing Lisa in the afternoon. (= am meeting)
The chicken tastes salty. (it is/has the flavour of) - Paul is tasting the soup to see if it is warm enough. (= is testing)
The perfume smells flowery. (= has the aroma of) - She is smelling the roses. (= is sniffing)
She appears to be having a great time. (= seems to) - Paul is appearing in a new theatre production (= is performing)
The trousers fit perfectly. (= they are the right size) - Tim is fitting a new door in the garage. (= is attaching/installing)
Note: The verb enjoy can be used in continuous tenses to express a specific preference.
Jack really enjoys reading crime novels. (general preference)
BUT
He’s enjoying the party very much. (specific preference)
The verbs look (when we refer to somebody’s appearance), feel (experience a particular emotion), hurt and ache can be used in simple or continuous tenses with no difference in meaning.
She looks very beautiful. = She is looking very beautiful.
