Module 4: The Passive Voice
Form
We form the passive with the verb to be in the appropriate tense and the past participle of the main verb.
Tense Overview in Active and Passive Voice
Present Simple
Active: Mary makes tea.
Passive: Tea is made by Mary.
Present Continuous
Active: I am making tea.
Passive: Tea is being made (by me).
Past Simple
Active: Mary made some cakes.
Passive: Some cakes were made by Mary.
Past Continuous
Active: Mary was making tea.
Passive: Tea was being made by Mary.
Present Perfect Simple
Active: Mary has made tea and coffee.
Passive: Tea and coffee have been made by Mary.
Past Perfect Simple
Active: Mary had made tea.
Passive: Tea had been made by Mary.
Future Simple
Active: Mary will make tea.
Passive: Tea will be made by Mary.
Future Perfect Simple
Active: Mary will have made tea.
Passive: Tea will have been made by Mary.
Infinitive
Active: Mary has to make tea.
Passive: Tea has to be made by Mary.
Modal Verbs
Active: Mary may make tea.
Passive: Tea may be made by Mary.
Usage of the Passive Voice
We use the passive:
When the person/people doing the action is/are unknown, unimportant or obvious from the context.
The food was cooked. (We don't know who cooked it.)
The shirt is being washed. (It's unimportant who is washing it.)
The criminal has been arrested. (It's obvious that the police arrested the criminal.)
When the action itself is more important than the person/people doing it, as in news headlines, newspaper articles, formal notices, advertisements, instructions, processes, etc.
Trespassers will be prosecuted.
When we want to avoid taking responsibility for an action or when we refer to an unpleasant event and we do not want to say who or what is to blame.
Hundreds of people were injured in the train crash.
To emphasise the agent.
The flowers were sent by the Queen herself.
To make statements more formal or polite.
My bag has been ruined. (More polite than saying 'you've ruined my bag'.)
Changing from Active to Passive
The object of the active sentence becomes the subject in the passive sentence.
The active verb remains in the same tense but changes into passive form.
The subject of the active sentence becomes the agent, and is either introduced with the preposition by or is omitted.
Example:
Active: Liz painted a portrait. (Subject: Liz, Verb: painted, Object: a portrait)
Passive: The portrait was painted by Liz. (Subject: The portrait, Verb: was painted, Agent: by Liz)
Important Notes
Only transitive verbs (verbs that take an object) can be changed into the passive.
Active: Paul swims every day. (intransitive verb; no passive form)
Some transitive verbs (have, exist, seem, fit, suit, resemble, lack, etc.) cannot be changed into the passive.
This colour suits you. (NOT: This colour is suited by you.)
We can use the verb to get instead of the verb to be in everyday speech when we talk about things that happen by accident or unexpectedly.
He got hit by a truck.
By + the agent is used to say who or what carries out an action. With + instrument/material/ingredient is used to say what the agent used.
This photograph was taken by my brother. It was taken with a digital camera.
The agent can be omitted when the subject is they, he, someone/somebody, people, one, etc.
People have discovered the truth. = The truth has been discovered.
The agent is not omitted when it is a specific or important person, or when it is essential to the meaning of the sentence.
The novel was written by Graham Greene.
With verbs which can take two objects (bring, tell, send, show, teach, promise, buy, sell, read, offer, give, lend, etc.), we can form two different passive sentences.
Active: Philip will send Sarah a gift.
Passive (more usual): Sarah will be sent a gift.
Passive (less usual): A gift will be sent to Sarah by Philip.
In passive questions with who, whom or which we do not omit by.
Who gave you this book? → Who were you given this book by?
Hear, help, make and see are followed by a to-infinitive in the passive.
Additional Notes on Passive Voice
Verbs Followed by Infinitive in Passive
The verbs hear, help, make, and see are followed by a to-infinitive in the passive voice, even though they are followed by a bare infinitive in the active voice.
Example:
Active: She made me lie.
Passive: I was made to lie.
Verbs Followed by Present Participle
The verbs hear, see, and watch can be followed by a present participle (-ing form) in both active and passive voice.
Examples:
Active: We saw her stealing.
Passive: She was seen stealing.